title: Porting QuArK to C++ and/or Linux
author: Armin Rigo, DanielPharos

A lot of attention has been given recently about the possibility of translating QuArK to the C/C++ lanaguage and/or porting it
to another OS like Linux.

The current state of the Linux port idea is that, unless we need for a C++ version that new programmers could handle without
having to learn Delphi first, the Linux port will wait until Borland releases its Delphi-for-Linux project (Kylix). However,
that was scheduled for mid-2000 and is now cancelled.

Another posibility is Free Pascal, which is an alternative Pascal (and also Delphi) compiler. However, as this doesn't support
Delphi packages (yet), this isn't an option at this time.

But the C++ translation could be needed just because it would let many new programmers with C++ knowledge enter the project. In
this case we will have to be very careful about which OS-dependent the translated code uses and at which point the development
of the Delphi version of the source has to be halted (because it is clear that we cannot indefinitely maintain concurrent C++
and a Delphi versions).

The 3rd reason we might want to translate to C++ is performance. Raw C++ code can run a bit faster than raw Delphi code (mainly
because Borland's Delphi compiler is not good enough at optimizing...). This is however a relatively minor issue, as the
performance bottleneck are found in the Python code emulation (mainly noticeable when you open the map editor and have to wait
a little bit), and in the speed of the 2D drivers and hardware (for drawing the wireframe maps). The latter could be addressed
by using complex bitmap caches techniques but not by translating the code to another language.

Another reason for a porting: it gives the opportunity to give the code a close look. Much of the code was not written with
multiple game support in mind, and the codebase has become quite messy over the years. A complete clean-up would also add the
opportunity to make the code more flexible, for instance related to different file formats.

If we decide that the C++ translation is not done for portability reasons then the easiest solution is to switch to BCB
(Borland C++ Builder), which can compile both Delphi and C++ source code and shares Delphi's VCL (Visual Component Library).
This would let us translate QuArK module-by-module as needed. Before we do so however we must make sure that BCB will be
available in a Linux version nearly as soon as Delphi.

If on the other hand we decide we should make QuArK a real Free Software project, we have to see what solutions we have to
translate it in such a way that it can be compiled by free compilers (GCC). This solution has the big advantage that QuArK
would then be available on numerous platforms (e.g. the Mac) with little effort. Before we do so we must decide which
widely-available GUI library we will target : Tk, Qt, others ?

In any case, keep in mind that most parts of QuArK are tightly integrated with each other... I mean, if you want to make, say,
first an independant C++ version of QuArK where the model editor would be developed, and hope to translate the map editor from
the "official" QuArK later as a block when everything works well, then forget about it. If you wanted even just to reproduce
the current model viewer, you would have to port so many things from the current QuArK that you will end up with something that
can already run the map editor's Python code... This means that you will have ported the map editor just by trying to port the
model viewer ;-)

In conclusion, porting/translating has to be carefully prepared and it has to be done as fast as possible while the Delphi
development is frozen. It cannot easily be done piece-by-piece. This would mean we need quite a big team of people working more
or less nonstop, porting code from Delphi to C++, and at the moment (begin 2007) the development team is way too small.
