title: Options
author: Decker

<img align=right>options.png</img>
A lot of things in the map-editor is controlled in this folder. A brief
overview will be given here, but you should experiment with the settings
yourself, to get a knowledge of what they do and if you can use them to
something usefull.

<i>Draw axis</i>. If the X, Y and Z-axis through coordinate 0,0,0 (center of
map) should be drawn.

<i>Show indirect 'target' links</i>. Shows with colored arrows, what a selected
entity has as 'targets', and their 'targets', and their 'targets', and their
'targets', and their 'targets', etc. etc. etc. Having this on, can really slow
down map-drawing in the map-editor, if you got a lot of 'targets'. It is
<u>recommended</u> to only have this checked, when you want to see that its all
connected.

<i>Both red lines</i>. Turn on a second set of red-guidiance lines.

<i>Cross-like cursor</i>. If you're doing precision work, its better to have a
cross instead of the arrow-shaped mouse-cursor.

<i>Auto adjust normal</i>. It's about the face "normal" vectors as well as the
entities' "angle" vectors drawn in the map editor. When you move them with the
mouse, if this box is checked, it gets forced to the nearest multiple of 15
degrees (15 is the default value and can be changed) just as if you were
holding down the Ctrl key all the time.

<i>Delete unused faces</i>. Unless you know what you're doing, keep this marked
at all times.

<i>Dig in 3D views</i>. To see what a digger or negative polyhedron will do to
your level in the 3D-windows, keep this checked.

<i>Hide faces in tree</i>. Check this, if you do not want to be able to expand
polyhedrons showing its faces, in the tree-view. If you are working with
shared-faces, uncheck this.

<i>Hint for map handles</i>. Keep this checked, or you will not be able to get
the great flyover-hintboxes on handles.

<i>Don't write //TX# in .map</i>. If you do not use build tools that are
custommade for QuArK, you won't be able to take advantage of the better
texture-alignment, when compiling your map. This option must be
<u>unchecked</u> when you use TXQBSP/TXQCSG build tools.
