title: Edit menu
author: Decker

<img border=0 align=right>edit.png</img>
<i>Undo [something]</i>. This menuitem will be active, if you can undo a
previous action. The <i>something</i>, will be the action it will undo.

<i>Undo/Redo</i> will open up the Undo/Redo window, where you can undo or redo
more actions with one mouse-click.

<i>Cut</i>. You know; remove the selection and put it into the clipboard.

<i>Copy</i>. Just as easy; copy the selection into the clipboard.

<i>Paste</i>. Take whatever is in the clipboard, and if it is something QuArK
can use, it will paste it to where you point.

<i>Duplicate</i>. A copy <u>and</u> paste action, but without putting the
selection in the clipboard.

<i>Delete</i>. Deletes the selection. Notice that it won't put anything in the
clipboard.

<i>View group</i>. See the View Group menu. It will only be active, if you have
selected a group in the tree view.

<i>Texture flags</i>. Only some games have this menuitem. See Face-flags window
for a description.

<a name="viewgroup"></a><hr>

<img border=0 align=right>viewgroup.png</img>
If you have a group selected in the tree view, you can specify different
behaviour for it.

<i>Group is visible</i>. This is the normal setting. All objects that belongs
to this group, are visible and selectable on the map-views.

<i>Group is grayed out</i>. When this is marked, all objects that belongs to
this group, are shaded even if they are within the visible part of the
map-views.

<i>Group is hidden</i>. Every object that belongs to this group, are not drawn
on the map-views. Marking this option will automatically also check the
<i>Cannot select with the mouse</i> option.

<i>Hide on textured views</i>. When this option are checked, all objects
belonging to this group are not shown on solid-, textured- or 3D-views, only
wireframe-views. This speeds up drawing a bit.

<i>Cannot select with the mouse</i>. Check this option, if you do not want to
select and change objects belonging to this group by an accident. This is a
good setting, when you are done with some part of your map, and starts to build
something else near or within that finished part.

<i>Ignore to build maps</i>. If this option is checked and the <i>Ignore groups
marked so when building map</i> in the option menu also is checked, QuArK will
not include objects belonging to this group, when you build your level. Using
this option, you can play-test parts of your level, without having to
<g>compile</g> the entire level every time.
