title: Tips & Tricks
author: greeze@europa.com

I wanted to share this idea I had for a (possibly) different use for 
the path duplicator.  Maybe everyone already does this, but just in 
case...

I used to think of the path duplicator as a tool for constructing 
hallways or piping or other symmetrical extruded objects.  But it 
also works very well for constructing non-symmetrical things like 
rooms.  

For example, instead of using symmetrical, closed objects for your 
template (like the shape of an "O"), try cutting your template in 
half down the middle (so that it's now shaped like a parenthesis) and 
constructing your tunnel out of two halves.  This makes it very easy 
to widen your tunnel as you go, or have it open up seamlessly into a 
room.  In fact, using this method, you can use your template to 
create an entire oddly-shaped room by extruding the template all the 
way around in a loop.  Drop in a ceiling and a floor and voila!  You 
have yourself an oddly shaped room with almost no work at all.

You can create some really cool rooms this way if you get creative 
with the template.  For example, try making your template into the 
shape of a capital "E" and extruding that in a loop.  Suddenly you 
have a room with a walkway around the edge.

Anyway, this is how I've taken to making all my maps these days.  I 
keep a set of stylized cross-section prefabs that are all multiples 
of the same size and can be used in different areas of the map.  I 
hope this comes as news to at least a few people.  It has certainly 
made map-making a lot more fun for me.