title: Face Sharing
author: <a href="mailto:quickdeath@planethalflife.com">QuickDeath</a>

QuArK supports the advanced feature of "sharing" a face among several
polyhedrons (NOTE: the term "polyhedron" and "brush" are interchangeable.  Many
editors use the term "brush" while QuArK uses "polyhedron" or simply "a poly").

Please note that face sharing requires the use of "groups".  If you don't know
how to use QuArK's group feature, you need to
<ref> ./grouptechniques \ review the basics </ref>.  Before we get into face
sharing, we also need to review some Quake-engine basics.

<u>Defining a world...</u>

Quake-engine based games are comprised of polys.  To define a poly, you need to
define a number of planes.  As we all remember from geometry, a plane is
a flat, 2-dimensional object that has infinte length and width.

A poly in Quake is the intersection of a bunch of planes.  A simple cube is
defined by the intersection of six planes.  Two planes define the top and
bottom of the cube while four more planes define the four sides.  Imagine a
house of cards.  A single "room" of this house would consist of one card face
down on the table, four cards for each side and one card on top.  Now imagine
these cards as planes.  The inside of this "room" (the place where all six of
the planes intersect) creates a poly.

QuArK gives you individual access to the planes, or "faces", that define a
poly. As we all know, you place textures on these faces to build your level.
What you can also do is "share" a face among multiple polys.  If two (or more)
polys share the same face, you define the texture scaling and position once on
that shared face and every poly using that face will have a smooth texture
flow.

<u>Putting Face Sharing to work</u>

Imagine 3 polys in a row (part of a room).  The middle one is the same height
as the ones to the left and right, but it's bottom is raised up. It's an entry
way into a hallway.  Here's the view if you're facing the 3 walls:

<center><img>front.png</img></center>

Assume we use the same texture for the "front" of these polys (the side that is
facing us), we'll have to position the texture on the second and third polys
very carefully so it flows nicely across the entire wall.  Looking at the 3
polys from above, we'd see:

<center><img>top1.png</img></center>

All 3 of these polys share 2 planes.  If we look at the above view the "front"
and "back" faces of all 3 polys run along the same plane:

<center><img>top2.png</img></center>

To keep things simple, we'll just worry about the "front" plane.

Create a new group.  We'll call the group "Wall1" and move all 3 polys into the
group.  Your treeview should look something like this:

<center><img border=1>tree1.png</img></center>

Now open up the first poly to show all of the faces and move the "front" face
to the top of the group (determing the face to move is easiest by just
selecting it in the editor).  You move the face by grabbing it with a
right-click and dragging it to the top of the group (outside the poly).  We'll
assume the face to move is the one QuArK calls "south".  After moving the
"south" face, your treeview should now look something like this:

<center><img border=1>tree2.png</img></center>

Now open up the face list of the second and third poly's and delete the front
face of each of those -- this will <i>usually</i> be the same face (i.e.
"south") as the first one, but not always.  Select the face in the editor to be
sure.

The "south" face is now the "front" face that all of the three polys share.
Define your texture for that face and you're all set!  No problems with texture
alignment because it's one face -- the texture is just pasted across the entire
face!

<center><img>facesharing.png</img></center>

This technique is also handy if you have a floor that is composed of multiple
polys (because of the shape of the room -- non-convex).  Assuming all of these
polys are at the same height, put all of them in a group and share the side
facing "up".  Now when you want change the floor texture, change it on the one
floor face and the entire floor (across all of the polys) changes since they're
all sharing that face (plane).
